The Project Gutenberg eBook of Let's Get Together
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Let's Get Together

Author: Isaac Asimov

Illustrator: Robert Engle

Release date: June 22, 2022 [eBook #68377]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: Royal Publications, Inc, 1956

Credits: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LET'S GET TOGETHER ***





                          LET'S GET TOGETHER

                            By ISAAC ASIMOV

                         Illustrated by ENGLE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                       Infinity, February 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


A kind of peace had endured for a century and people had forgotten what
anything else was like. They would scarcely have known how to react had
they discovered that a kind of war had finally come.

Certainly, Elias Lynn, Chief of the Bureau of Robotics, wasn't sure
how he ought to react when _he_ finally found out. The Bureau of
Robotics was headquartered in Cheyenne, in line with the century-old
trend toward decentralization, and Lynn stared dubiously at the young
Security officer from Washington who had brought the news.

Elias Lynn was a large man, almost charmingly homely, with pale blue
eyes that bulged a bit. Men weren't usually comfortable under the stare
of those eyes, but the Security officer remained calm.

Lynn decided that his first reaction ought to be incredulity. Hell, it
_was_ incredulity! He just didn't believe it!

He eased himself back in his chair and said, "How certain is the
information?"

The Security officer, who had introduced himself as Ralph G.
Breckenridge and had presented credentials to match, had the softness
of youth about him; full lips, plump cheeks that flushed easily,
and guileless eyes. His clothing was out of line with Cheyenne but
it suited a universally air-conditioned Washington, where Security,
despite everything, was still centered.

Breckenridge flushed and said, "There's no doubt about it."

"You people know all about Them, I suppose," said Lynn and was unable
to keep a trace of sarcasm out of his tone. He was not particularly
aware of his use of a slightly-stressed pronoun in his reference to the
enemy, the equivalent of capitalization in print. It was a cultural
habit of this generation and the one preceding. No one said the "East,"
or the "Reds" or the "Soviets" or the "Russians" any more. That would
have been too confusing, since some of Them weren't of the East,
weren't Reds, Soviets, and especially not Russians. It was much simpler
to say We and They, and much more precise.

Travelers had frequently reported that They did the same in reverse.
Over there, They were "We" (in the appropriate language) and We were
"They."

Scarcely anyone gave thought to such things any more. It was all quite
comfortable and casual. There was no hatred, even. At the beginning,
it had been called a Cold War. Now it was only a game, almost a
good-natured game, with unspoken rules and a kind of decency about it.

Lynn said, abruptly, "Why should They want to disturb the situation?"

He rose and stood staring at a wall-map of the world, split into two
regions with faint edgings of color. An irregular portion on the left
of the map was edged in a mild green. A smaller, but just as irregular,
portion on the right of the map was bordered in a washed-out pink. We
and They.

The map hadn't changed much in a century. The loss of Formosa and
the gain of East Germany some eighty years before had been the last
territorial switch of importance.

There had been another change, though, that was significant enough and
that was in the colors. Two generations before, Their territory had
been a brooding, bloody red, Ours a pure and undefiled white. Now there
was a neutrality about the colors. Lynn had seen Their maps and it was
the same on Their side.

"They wouldn't do it," he said.

"They are doing it," said Breckenridge, "and you had better accustom
yourself to the fact. Of course, sir, I realize that it isn't pleasant
to think that they may be that far ahead of us in robotics."

His eyes remained as guileless as ever, but the hidden knife-edges of
the words plunged deep, and Lynn quivered at the impact.

Of course, that would account for why the Chief of Robotics learned of
this so late and through a Security officer at that. He had lost caste
in the eyes of the Government; if Robotics had really failed in the
struggle, Lynn could expect no political mercy.

Lynn said wearily, "Even if what you say is true, they're not far ahead
of us. We could build humanoid robots."

"Have we, sir?"

"Yes. As a matter of fact, we have built a few models for experimental
purposes."

"They were doing so ten years ago. They've made ten years' progress
since."

Lynn was disturbed. He wondered if his incredulity concerning the whole
business were really the result of wounded pride and fear for his job
and reputation. He was embarrassed by the possibility that this might
be so, and yet he was forced into defense.

He said, "Look, young man, the stalemate between Them and Us was never
perfect in every detail, you know. They have always been ahead in one
facet or another and We in some other facet or another. If They're
ahead of us right now in robotics, it's because They've placed a
greater proportion of Their effort into robotics than We have. And that
means that some other branch of endeavor has received a greater share
of Our efforts than it has of Theirs. It would mean We're ahead in
force-field research or in hyper-atomics, perhaps."

Lynn felt distressed at his own statement that the stalemate wasn't
perfect. It was true enough, but that was the one great danger
threatening the world. The world depended on the stalemate being as
perfect as possible. If the small unevennesses that always existed
over-balanced too far in one direction or the other--

Almost at the beginning of what had been the Cold War, both sides
had developed thermonuclear weapons, and war became unthinkable.
Competition switched from the military to the economic and
psychological and had stayed there ever since.

But always there was the driving effort on each side to break the
stalemate, to develop a parry for every possible thrust, to develop
a thrust that could not be parried in time--something that would make
war possible again. And that was not because either side wanted war so
desperately, but because both were afraid that the other side would
make the crucial discovery first.

For a hundred years each side had kept the struggle even. And in the
process, peace had been maintained for a hundred years while, as
byproducts of the continuously intensive research, force-fields had
been produced and solar energy and insect control and robots. Each side
was making a beginning in the understanding of mentalics, which was the
name given to the biochemistry and biophysics of thought. Each side had
its outposts on the Moon and on Mars. Mankind was advancing in giant
strides under forced draft.

It was even necessary for both sides to be as decent and humane as
possible among themselves, lest through cruelty and tyranny, friends be
made for the other side.

It couldn't be that the stalemate would now be broken and that there
would be war.

Lynn said, "I want to consult one of my men. I want his opinion."

"Is he trustworthy?"

Lynn looked disgusted. "Good Lord, what man in Robotics has not been
investigated and cleared to death by your people? Yes, I vouch for
him. If you can't trust a man like Humphrey Carl Laszlo, then we're in
no position to face the kind of attack you say They are launching, no
matter what else we do."

"I've heard of Laszlo," said Breckenridge.

"Good. Does he pass?"

"Yes."

"Then, I'll have him in and we'll find out what he thinks about the
possibility that robots could invade the U. S. A."

"Not exactly," said Breckenridge, softly. "You still don't accept the
full truth. Find out what he thinks about the fact that robots have
_already_ invaded the U. S. A."

       *       *       *       *       *

Laszlo was the grandson of a Hungarian who had broken through what
had then been called the Iron Curtain, and he had a comfortable
above-suspicion feeling about himself because of it. He was thick-set
and balding with a pugnacious look graven forever on his snub face, but
his accent was clear Harvard and he was almost excessively soft-spoken.

To Lynn, who was conscious that after years of administration he was no
longer expert in the various phases of modern robotics, Laszlo was a
comforting receptacle for complete knowledge. Lynn felt better because
of the man's mere presence.

Lynn said, "What do you think?"

A scowl twisted Laszlo's face ferociously. "That They're that far ahead
of us. Completely incredible. It would mean They've produced humanoids
that could not be told from humans at close quarters. It would mean a
considerable advance in robo-mentalics."

"You're personally involved," said Breckenridge, coldly. "Leaving
professional pride out of account, exactly why is it impossible that
They be ahead of Us?"

Laszlo shrugged. "I assure you that I'm well acquainted with Their
literature on robotics. I know approximately where They are."

"You know approximately where They want you to _think_ They are, is
what you really mean," corrected Breckenridge. "Have you ever visited
the other side?"

"I haven't," said Laszlo, shortly.

"Nor you, Dr. Lynn?"

Lynn said, "No, I haven't, either."

Breckenridge said, "Has any robotics man visited the other side in
twenty-five years?" He asked the question with a kind of confidence
that indicated he knew the answer.

For a matter of seconds, the atmosphere was heavy with thought.
Discomfort crossed Laszlo's broad face. He said, "As a matter of fact,
They haven't held any conferences on robotics in a long time."

"In twenty-five years," said Breckenridge. "Isn't that significant?"

"Maybe," said Laszlo, reluctantly. "Something else bothers me, though.
None of Them have ever come to Our conferences on robotics. None that I
can remember."

"Were They invited?" asked Breckenridge.

Lynn, staring and worried, interposed quickly, "Of course."

Breckenridge said, "Do They refuse attendance to any other types of
scientific conferences We hold?"

"I don't know," said Laszlo. He was pacing the floor now. "I haven't
heard of any cases. Have you, Chief?"

"No," said Lynn.

Breckenridge said, "Wouldn't you say it was as though They didn't want
to be put in the position of having to return any such invitation? Or
as though They were afraid one of Their men might talk too much?"

That was exactly how it seemed, and Lynn felt a helpless conviction
that Security's story was true after all steal over him.

Why else had there been no contact between sides on robotics? There
had been a cross-fertilizing trickle of researchers moving in both
directions on a strictly one-for-one basis for years, dating back
to the days of Eisenhower and Khrushchev. There were a great many
good motives for that: an honest appreciation of the supra-national
character of science; impulses of friendliness that are hard to wipe
out completely in the individual human being; the desire to be exposed
to a fresh and interesting outlook and to have your own slightly-stale
notions greeted by others as fresh and interesting.

The governments themselves were anxious that this continue. There was
always the obvious thought that by learning all you could and telling
as little as you could, your own side would gain by the exchange.

But not in the case of robotics. Not there.

Such a little thing to carry conviction. And a thing, moreover, they
had known all along. Lynn thought, darkly: We've taken the complacent
way out.

Because the other side had done nothing publicly on robotics, it had
been tempting to sit back smugly and be comfortable in the assurance of
superiority. Why hadn't it seemed possible, even likely, that They were
hiding superior cards, a trump hand, for the proper time?

Laszlo said, shakenly, "What do we do?" It was obvious that the same
line of thought had carried the same conviction to him.

"Do?" parroted Lynn. It was hard to think right now of anything but of
the complete horror that came with conviction. There were ten humanoid
robots somewhere in the United States, each one carrying a fragment of
a TC bomb.

TC! The race for sheer horror in bomb-ery had ended there. TC! Total
Conversion! The sun was no longer a synonym one could use. Total
conversion made the sun a penny candle.

Ten humanoids, each completely harmless in separation, could, by the
simple act of coming together, exceed critical mass and--

Lynn rose to his feet heavily, the dark pouches under his eyes, which
ordinarily lent his ugly face a look of savage foreboding, more
prominent than ever. "It's going to be up to us to figure out ways
and means of telling a humanoid from a human and then finding the
humanoids."

"How quickly?" muttered Laszlo.

"Not later than five minutes before they get together," barked Lynn,
"and I don't know when that will be."

Breckenridge nodded. "I'm glad you're with us now, sir. I'm to bring
you back to Washington for conference, you know."

Lynn raised his eyebrows. "All right."

He wondered if, had he delayed longer in being convinced, he might
not have been replaced forthwith--if some other Chief of the Bureau
of Robotics might not be conferring in Washington. He suddenly wished
earnestly that exactly that had come to pass.

       *       *       *       *       *

The First Presidential Assistant was there, the Secretary of Science,
the Secretary of Security, Lynn himself, and Breckenridge. Five of them
sitting about a table in the dungeons of an underground fortress near
Washington.

Presidential Assistant Jeffreys was an impressive man, handsome in a
white-haired and just-a-trifle-jowly fashion, solid, thoughtful and as
unobtrusive, politically, as a Presidential Assistant ought to be.

He spoke incisively. "There are three questions that face us as I see
it. First, when are the humanoids going to get together? Second, where
are they going to get together? Third, how do we stop them before they
get together?"

Secretary of Science Amberley nodded convulsively at that. He had been
Dean of Northwestern Engineering before his appointment. He was thin,
sharp-featured and noticeably edgy. His forefinger traced slow circles
on the table.

"As far as _when_ they'll get together," he said. "I suppose it's
definite that it won't be for some time."

"Why do you say that?" asked Lynn, sharply.

"They've been in the U. S. at least a month already. So Security says."

Lynn turned automatically to look at Breckenridge, and Secretary of
Security Macalaster intercepted the glance. Macalaster said, "The
information is reliable. Don't let Breckenridge's apparent youth fool
you, Dr. Lynn. That's part of his value to us. Actually, he's 34 and
has been with the department for ten years. He has been in Moscow for
nearly a year and without him, none of this terrible danger would be
known to us. As it is, we have most of the details."

"Not the crucial ones," said Lynn.

Macalaster of Security smiled frostily. His heavy chin and close-set
eyes were well-known to the public but almost nothing else about him
was. He said, "We are all finitely human, Dr. Lynn. Agent Breckenridge
has done a great deal."

Presidential Assistant Jeffreys cut in. "Let us say we have a certain
amount of time. If action at the instant were necessary, it would
have happened before this. It seems likely that they are waiting for
a specific time. If we knew the place, perhaps the time would become
self-evident.

"If they are going to TC a target, they will want to cripple us as much
as possible, so it would seem that a major city would have to be it.
In any case, a major metropolis is the only target worth a TC bomb. I
think there are four possibilities: Washington, as the administrative
center; New York, as the financial center; and Detroit and Pittsburgh
as the two chief industrial centers."

Macalaster of Security said, "I vote for New York. Administration
and industry have both been decentralized to the point where the
destruction of any one particular city won't prevent instant
retaliation."

"Then why New York?" asked Amberly of Science, perhaps more sharply
than he intended. "Finance has been decentralized as well."

"A question of morale. It may be they intend to destroy our will to
resist, to induce surrender by the sheer horror of the first blow.
The greatest destruction of human life would be in the New York
Metropolitan area--"

"Pretty cold-blooded," muttered Lynn.

"I know," said Macalaster of Security, "but they're capable of it, if
they thought it would mean final victory at a stroke. Wouldn't we--"

Presidential Assistant Jeffreys brushed back his white hair. "Let's
assume the worst. Let's assume that New York will be destroyed some
time during the winter, preferably immediately after a serious blizzard
when communications are at their worst and the disruption of utilities
and food supplies in fringe areas will be most serious in their effect.
Now, how do we stop them?"

Amberley of Science could only say, "Finding ten men in two hundred and
twenty million is an awfully small needle in an awfully large haystack."

Jeffreys shook his head. "You have it wrong. Ten humanoids among two
hundred twenty million humans."

"No difference," said Amberley of Science. "We don't know that a
humanoid can be differentiated from a human at sight. Probably not." He
looked at Lynn. They all did.

Lynn said heavily, "We in Cheyenne couldn't make one that would pass as
human in the daylight."

"But They can," said Macalaster of Security, "and not only physically.
We're sure of that. They've advanced mentalic procedures to the point
where they can reel off the micro-electronic pattern of the brain and
focus it on the positronic pathways of the robot."

Lynn stared. "Are you implying that they can create the replica of a
human being complete with personality and memory?"

"I do."

"Of specific human beings?"

"That's right."

"Is this also based on Agent Breckenridge's findings?"

"Yes. The evidence can't be disputed."

Lynn bent his head in thought for a moment. Then he said, "Then ten men
in the United States are not men but humanoids. But the originals would
have had to be available to them. They couldn't be Orientals, who would
be too easy to spot, so they would have to be East Europeans. How would
they be introduced into this country, then? With the radar network over
the entire world border as tight as a drum, how could They introduce
any individual, human or humanoid, without our knowing it?"

Macalaster of Security said, "It can be done. There are certain
legitimate seepages across the border. Businessmen, pilots, even
tourists. They're watched, of course, on both sides. Still ten of
them might have been kidnapped and used as models for humanoids. The
humanoids would then be sent back in their place. Since we wouldn't
expect such a substitution, it would pass us by. If they were Americans
to begin with, there would be no difficulty in their getting into this
country. It's as simple as that."

"And even their friends and family could not tell the difference?"

"We must assume so. Believe me, we've been waiting for any report
that might imply sudden attacks of amnesia or troublesome changes in
personality. We've checked on thousands."

Amberley of Science stared at his finger-tips. "I think ordinary
measures won't work. The attack must come from the Bureau of Robotics
and I depend on the chief of that bureau."

Again eyes turned sharply, expectantly, on Lynn.

Lynn felt bitterness rise. It seemed to him that this was what the
conference came to and was intended for. Nothing that had been said had
not been said before. He was sure of that. There was no solution to
the problem, no pregnant suggestion. It was a device for the record, a
device on the part of men who gravely feared defeat and who wished the
responsibility for it placed clearly and unequivocally on someone else.

And yet there was justice in it. It was in robotics that We had fallen
short. And Lynn was not Lynn merely. He was Lynn of Robotics and the
responsibility had to be his.

He said, "I will do what I can."

       *       *       *       *       *

He spent a wakeful night and there was a haggardness about both
body and soul when he sought and attained another interview with
Presidential Assistant Jeffreys the next morning. Breckenridge was
there, and though Lynn would have preferred a private conference,
he could see the justice in the situation. It was obvious that
Breckenridge had attained enormous influence with the government as a
result of his successful Intelligence work. Well, why not?

Lynn said, "Sir, I am considering the possibility that we are hopping
uselessly to enemy piping."

"In what way?"

"I'm sure that however impatient the public may grow at times, and
however legislators sometimes find it expedient to talk, the government
at least recognizes the world stalemate to be beneficial. They must
recognize it also. Ten humanoids with one TC bomb is a trivial way of
breaking the stalemate."

"The destruction of fifteen million human beings is scarcely trivial."

"It is from the world power standpoint. It would not so demoralize us
as to make us surrender or so cripple us as to convince us we could not
win. There would just be the same old planetary death-war that both
sides have avoided so long and so successfully. And all They would have
accomplished is to force us to fight minus one city. It's not enough."

"What do you suggest?" said Jeffreys, coldly. "That They do not have
ten humanoids in our country? That there is not a TC bomb waiting to
get together?"

"I'll agree that those things are here, but perhaps for some reason
greater than just mid-winter bomb-madness."

"Such as?"

"It may be that the physical destruction resulting from the humanoids
getting together is not the worst thing that can happen to us. What
about the moral and intellectual destruction that comes of their being
here at all? With all due respect to Agent Breckenridge, what if
They _intended_ for us to find out about the humanoids; what if the
humanoids are never supposed to get together, but merely to remain
separate in order to give us something to worry about."

"Why?"

"Tell me this. What measures have already been taken against the
humanoids? I suppose that Security is going through the files of all
citizens who have ever been across the border or close enough to it
to make kidnapping possible. I know, since Macalaster mentioned it
yesterday, that they are following up suspicious psychiatric cases.
What else?"

Jeffreys said, "Small X-ray devices are being installed in key places
in the large cities. In the mass arenas, for instance--"

"Where ten humanoids might slip in among a hundred thousand spectators
of a football game or an air-polo match?"

"Exactly."

"And concert halls and churches?"

"We must start somewhere. We can't do it all at once."

"Particularly when panic must be avoided?" said Lynn. "Isn't that so?
It wouldn't do to have the public realize that at any unpredictable
moment, some unpredictable city and its human contents would suddenly
cease to exist."

"I suppose that's obvious. What are you driving at?"

Lynn said strenuously, "That a growing fraction of our national effort
will be diverted entirely into the nasty problem of what Amberley
called finding a very small needle in a very large haystack. We'll
be chasing our tails madly, while They increase their research
lead to the point where we find we can no longer catch up; when we
must surrender without the chance even of snapping our fingers in
retaliation.

"Consider further that this news will leak out as more and more people
become involved in our counter-measures and more and more people begin
to guess what we're doing. Then what? The panic might do us more harm
than any one TC bomb."

The Presidential Assistant said, irritably, "In Heaven's name, man,
what do you suggest we do, then?"

"Nothing," said Lynn. "Call their bluff. Live as we have lived and
gamble that They won't dare break the stalemate for the sake of a
one-bomb headstart."

"Impossible!" said Jeffreys. "Completely impossible. The welfare of all
of Us is very largely in my hands, and doing nothing is the one thing
I cannot do. I agree with you, perhaps, that X-ray machines at sports
arenas are a kind of skin-deep measure that won't be effective, but it
has to be done so that people, in the aftermath, do not come to the
bitter conclusion that we tossed our country away for the sake of a
subtle line of reasoning that encouraged do-nothingism. In fact, our
counter-gambit will be active indeed."

"In what way?"

Presidential Assistant Jeffreys looked at Breckenridge. The young
Security officer, hitherto calmly silent, said, "It's no use talking
about a possible future break in the stalemate when the stalemate is
broken now. It doesn't matter whether these humanoids explode or do
not. Maybe they _are_ only a bait to divert us, as you say. But the
fact remains that we are a quarter of a century behind in robotics, and
that may be fatal. What other advances in robotics will there be to
surprise us if war does start? The only answer is to divert our entire
force immediately, _now_, into a crash program of robotics research,
and the first problem is to find the humanoids. Call it an exercise
in robotics, if you will, or call it the prevention of the death of
fifteen million men, women and children."

Lynn shook his head, helplessly, "You _can't_. You'd be playing into
their hands. They want us lured into the one blind alley while they're
free to advance in all other directions."

Jeffreys said, impatiently, "That's your guess. Breckenridge has made
his suggestion through channels and the government has approved, and we
will begin with an all-Science conference."

"All-Science?"

Breckenridge said, "We have listed every important scientist of every
branch of natural science. They'll all be at Cheyenne. There will
be only one point on the agenda: How to advance robotics. The major
specific sub-heading under that will be: How to develop a receiving
device for the electromagnetic fields of the cerebral cortex that will
be sufficiently delicate to distinguish between a protoplasmic human
brain and a positronic humanoid brain."

Jeffreys said, "We had hoped you would be willing to be in charge of
the conference."

"I was not consulted in this."

"Obviously time was short, sir. Do you agree to be in charge?"

Lynn smiled briefly. It was a matter of responsibility again. The
responsibility must be clearly that of Lynn of Robotics. He had the
feeling it would be Breckenridge who would really be in charge. But
what could he do?

He said, "I agree."

       *       *       *       *       *

Breckenridge and Lynn returned together to Cheyenne, where that evening
Laszlo listened with a sullen mistrust to Lynn's description of coming
events.

Laszlo said, "While you were gone, Chief, I've started putting
five experimental models of humanoid structure through the testing
procedures. Our men are on a twelve-hour day, with three shifts
overlapping. If we've got to arrange a conference, we're going to be
crowded and red-taped out of everything. Work will come to a halt."

Breckenridge said, "That will be only temporary. You will gain more
than you lose."

Laszlo scowled. "A bunch of astrophysicists and geochemists around
won't help a damn toward robotics."

"Views from specialists of other fields may be helpful."

"Are you sure? How do we know that there _is_ any way of detecting
brain waves or that, even if we can, there is a way of differentiating
human and humanoid by wave pattern. Who set up the project, anyway?"

"I did," said Breckenridge.

"_You_ did? Are you a robotics man?"

The young Security agent said, calmly, "I have studied robotics."

"That's not the same thing."

"I've had access to text-material dealing with Russian robotics--in
Russian. Top-secret material well in advance of anything you have here."

Lynn said, ruefully, "He has us there, Laszlo."

"It was on the basis of that material," Breckenridge went on, "that
I suggested this particular line of investigation. It is reasonably
certain that in copying off the electromagnetic pattern of a
specific human mind into a specific positronic brain, a perfectly
exact duplicate cannot be made. For one thing, the most complicated
positronic brain small enough to fit into a human-sized skull is
hundreds of times less complex than the human brain. It can't pick
up all the overtones, therefore, and there must be some way to take
advantage of that fact."

Laszlo looked impressed despite himself and Lynn smiled grimly. It was
easy to resent Breckenridge and the coming intrusion of several hundred
scientists of non-robotics specialties, but the problem itself was an
intriguing one. There was that consolation, at least.

       *       *       *       *       *

It came to him quietly.

Lynn found he had nothing to do but sit in his office alone, with an
executive position that had grown merely titular. Perhaps that helped.
It gave him time to think, to picture the creative scientists of half
the world converging on Cheyenne.

It was Breckenridge who, with cool efficiency, was handling the details
of preparation. There had been a kind of confidence in the way he said,
"Let's get together and we'll lick Them."

Let's get together.

It came to Lynn so quietly that anyone watching Lynn at that moment
might have seen his eyes blink slowly twice--but surely nothing more.

He did what he had to do with a whirling detachment that kept him calm
when he felt that, by all rights, he ought to be going mad.

He sought out Breckenridge in the other's improvised quarters.

Breckenridge was alone and frowning. "Is anything wrong, sir?"

Lynn said, wearily, "Everything's right, I think. I've invoked martial
law."

"What!"

"As chief of a division I can do so if I am of the opinion the
situation warrants it. Over my division, I can then be dictator. Chalk
up one for the beauties of decentralization."

"You will rescind that order immediately." Breckenridge took a step
forward. "When Washington hears this, you will be ruined."

"I'm ruined anyway. Do you think I don't realize that I've been set up
for the role of the greatest villain in American history: the man who
let Them break the stalemate. I have nothing to lose--and perhaps a
great deal to gain."

He laughed a little wildly, "What a target the Division of Robotics
will be, eh, Breckenridge? Only a few thousand men to be killed by
a TC bomb capable of wiping out three hundred square miles in one
micro-second. But five hundred of those men would be our greatest
scientists. We would be in the peculiar position of having to fight a
war with our brains shot out, or surrendering. I think we'd surrender."

"But this is impossible. Lynn, do you hear me? Do you understand? How
could the humanoids pass our security provisions? How could they get
together?"

"But they _are_ getting together! We're helping them to do so.
We're ordering them to do so. Our scientists visit the other side,
Breckenridge. They visit Them regularly. You made a point of how
strange it was that no one in robotics did. Well, ten of those
scientists are still there and in their place, ten humanoids are
converging on Cheyenne."

"That's a ridiculous guess."

"I think it's a good one, Breckenridge. But it wouldn't work unless we
knew humanoids were in America so that we would call the conference in
the first place. Quite a coincidence that you brought the news of the
humanoids _and_ suggested the conference _and_ suggested the agenda
_and_ are running the show and know exactly which scientists were
invited. Did you make sure the right ten were included?"

"Dr. Lynn!" cried Breckenridge in outrage. He poised to rush forward.

Lynn said, "Don't move. I've got a blaster here. We'll just wait for
the scientists to get here one by one. One by one we'll X-ray them. One
by one, we'll monitor them for radioactivity. No two will get together
without being checked, and if all five hundred are clear, I'll give
you my blaster and surrender to you. Only I think we'll find the ten
humanoids. Sit down, Breckenridge."

They both sat.

Lynn said, "We wait. When I'm tired, Laszlo will spell me. We wait."

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Manuelo Jiminez of the Institute of Higher Studies of Buenos
Aires exploded while the stratospheric jet on which he traveled was
three miles above the Amazon Valley. It was a simple chemical explosion
but it was enough to destroy the plane.

Dr. Herman Liebowitz of M. I. T. exploded in a monorail, killing twenty
people and injuring a hundred others.

In similar manner, Dr. Auguste Marin of L'Institut Nucléonique of
Montreal and seven others died at various stages of their journey to
Cheyenne.

       *       *       *       *       *

Laszlo hurtled in, pale-faced and stammering, with the first news
of it. It had only been two hours that Lynn had sat there, facing
Breckenridge, blaster in hand.

Laszlo said, "I thought you were nuts, Chief, but you were right.
They _were_ humanoids. They _had_ to be." He turned to stare with
hate-filled eyes at Breckenridge. "Only they were warned. _He_ warned
them, and now there won't be one left intact. Not one to study."

"God!" cried Lynn and in a frenzy of haste thrust his blaster out
toward Breckenridge and fired. The Security man's neck vanished; the
torso fell; the head dropped, thudded against the floor and rolled
crookedly.

Lynn moaned, "I didn't understand, I thought he was a traitor. Nothing
more."

And Laszlo stood immobile, mouth open, for the moment incapable of
speech.

Lynn said, wildly. "Sure, he warned them. But how could he do so while
sitting in that chair unless he were equipped with built-in radio
transmission? Don't you see it? Breckenridge had been in Moscow. The
real Breckenridge is still there. Oh my God, there were _eleven_ of
them."

Laszlo managed a hoarse squeak. "Why didn't _he_ explode?"

"He was hanging on, I suppose, to make sure the others had received his
message and were safely destroyed. Lord, Lord, when you brought the
news and I realized the truth, I couldn't shoot fast enough. God knows
by how few seconds I may have beaten him to it."

Laszlo said, shakily, "At least, we'll have one to study." He bent
and put his fingers on the sticky fluid trickling out of the mangled
remains at the neck end of the headless body.

Not blood, but high-grade machine oil.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LET'S GET TOGETHER ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


